# CS-340

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**
Generally, when writing a program, I follow the same process. I take the requirements and divide that into sections. Then, I give put each section onto my calendar of days I have available to complete work. This serves as both a check-off method to ensure everything gets completed as well as a means of dividing up the work into manageable chunks and helps me fit everything into my ever-changing schedule. When creating the CRUD module for use in project one, things were a bit different. The CRUD operations themselves are not difficult to write. Completing them in a day with proper annotations was rather easy to do. Creating the dashboard with widgets took more time. For that section, dividing everything up and mentioned before was essential. That being said, there are numerous ways to incorporate the CRUD module in the future. Python in my preferred method and any new skills or approaches to doing things in Python are a great asset to help build my abilities. 

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**
When approaching any problem as a computer scientist, you need to have the needs of the user in mind. You must always deliver work that is to the best of your ability that, at a bare minimum, meets the needs of the client in a safe and secure manner. While some clients won't specify a degree of user friendliness that is needed, you should always strive to create something that is the simplest to use as possible so that users can get the most out of the system with the least amount of struggle and smallest learning curve. With the work for Grazioso Salvare in particular, working with MongoDB satisfied everything they needed with the aggregation ablities. 

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**
Computer science is about taking a problem or challenge and finding a technological solution. Computers have been and will continue to be the solution to making work more effective and/or simpler. Computer scientists are the ones required to make this into a reality. Grazioso Salvare is a company that is dedicating their work to finding dogs that would be capable of training for important tasks. That is something that could be done without computers. However, the amount of time and manpower that would be required to find those dogs would be enormous in scope. A team of individuals calling animal shelters day and night in order to ind potential candidates would be needed. With a system like the one developed for project two of this course, the number of individuals required for this task is reduced to one or two at most and the amount of time needed to search each shelter drops to minutes rather than hours or even days. This project wasn't about making something new possible, it was about increasing effeciency. 
